So let's talk about the first
test that I like to do,
which is testing comprehension, right?
So when you're testing comprehension,
you're essentially attempting to
understand what the users understand
what the page is about and
what action they can take from it, right?
So it's more on the usability
side of things.
We're not worried about
whether people like it,
we're just worried about whether
they understand it and can use it.
One of the tests that I've really
liked is called an eight-second test,
when it's not,
it's called a five-second test, right?
Which really annoys me because I never
do it for five seconds, always do it for
eight seconds, and I'll explain why.
So users spend on average
about eight seconds
assessing a page when they hit it.
This is based on some possibly dubious
research that was done previously,
but it's the best that we've got by time,
which has been published
in various places.
Who knows how accurate it is and
how represented it is overall, but
it seems to be a reasonable number.
You could look at your own analytics if
you really wanted to get an idea of it,
but yeah,
about eight seconds assessing a page
before they decide if it's helpful or not.
If they don't think it's gonna be helpful,
they're gonna abandon it, right?
So one of the things that we want to
ensure is that they consider this page
helpful, right?
And they understand what's going on.
So with this test,
which we'll call the eight-second test,
we first of all need to understand who
we need to do this test with, right?
Obviously, with all testing,
in an ideal world,
you wanna test with your average user.
However, it doesn't necessarily
need to be that way.
You can get away with testing with
people that aren't as familiar with it.
And I said this before, and
I just wanna repeat it here that there is
a lot of good reasons for making something
usable and comprehensible by everybody.
They might be new to the sector.
English might not be their first language.
They might have a cognitive disability,
etc.
So long and short of it is you can
do this first eight-second test
with anybody you want that's
outside of the organization and
that is approximately equally able
as your target audience, right?
I regularly use friends and family to the
point now where there are certain family
members I can't use anymore because
they've become so competent at doing these
tests that they're not representative of
the average user anymore, problematic.
So yeah, it's officially
called the five-second test.
I show it for eight because that's the
average time somebody says on the site.
So essentially, a five-second test
involves showing the user your
design concept for eight seconds,
after which you ask them to recall
specific details or
their first impression or both, right?
It's totally up to you what you wanna ask.
And all of this is about assessing the
effectiveness of the visual communication.
So typically, what I will do is I
normally ask them two questions.
The first question was,
what was that page about, right?
And the second question is,
what do you remember from that page?
What elements do you remember
seeing from the page, all right?
That's basically it.
And it's really easy to set up, right?
You just go into the site and
you select five-second test.
You give it a name.
You upload your image.
You write your questions.
You press publish, and that's it.
It gives you a URL, and that URL you
can give out to friends and family or
whoever else, right?
And then what they will see is this, look
at the interface for eight seconds and
remember as much as you can.
That's what I've asked them to do
in this particular case, right?
And when they hit that button,
the image then appears for eight seconds.
And then at the end of the eight seconds,
it disappears and
they're given a box to fill in
what they remembered, right?
Such a quick and easy test, okay?
You can see how you can get results in
a few minutes from a test like that,
takes few minutes to set up,
few minutes to run.
And what you'll get back is that,
basically a word cloud saying all
of the different words that people
used and different phrases.
So in this case,
I was pretty happy with this because it
was a site about doing direct mail, right?
Something, that word worried me slightly.
[LAUGH] So I did have to go in and
check the individual results to find
out why people, they were saying things
like something about direct mail.
So that's fair enough.
I didn't need to worry
about that too much.
So yeah, and you can get a very quick
idea very quickly about whether
people comprehend what they're looking at,
brilliant, wonderful, super.
I mean, an alternative approach if you've
got a little bit more time is you could
do some user interviews and
do it that way because user interviews
are always very enlightening.
I mean, they're more in-depth for a start.
You can ask follow-up questions.
And you could also see people's
non-visual cues cuz sometimes you get
great reactions.
You showed the design and
they go like that.
[LAUGH] And then you know,
or they lean clubs,
which is maybe an indication,
it's not as obvious as it should be.
And there are things like
that which are quite nice.
But let's be honest, it's a long lead
time to set up something like that.
It takes time to actually run it.
And it's often smaller
numbers you're looking at.
So do what you feel is
appropriate in those situations.
Yeah, user interviews are great, but
they do come with their drawback.
But I tell you, that five-second test is
a corker for giving you solid advice that
says, no, people did see the logo,
we don't need to make it bigger, right?
Or, yes, people did understand
what the site is about.